hi everyone i just want to make a quick
mention that i recorded the next several
episodes
prior to coronavirus pandemic
i know that it's a tough time for all of
us i do hope that you'll find time to
relax
and hopefully get a sense of normality
by watching my weekly episodes
and in the meantime be safe and
stay healthy in light of coronavirus
pandemic
i just want to let you know that you
probably are encountering
uh the budget shift and the headcount
reduction
and also you need to change your
marketing plan i totally understand all
that
my episode still applied to the current
situation
so if you can watch the whole episode i
have something to share with you at the
end
hey welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more with pam dinner
me today i actually have a question
coming from quinny
and she lives in hong kong and she said
what is your take
on outsourcing the content writing
versus getting a copywriting in-house
and i want to answer that question in a
much broader term which is the in-source
versus outsource and in this episode i
want to touch on three things
the pros and cons of insources versus
outsource and a couple of the key
elements you need to take into
consideration to determine which
approach that you should take and number
three
say if you outsource what are some of
the things you need to pay attention to
let's talk about the pros and cons of
in-house versus outsource obviously
for in-house there's many many benefits
one is you actually have a total control
you have
in-house team members that doing your
marketing campaign so creative
you have a total control and also
there's a transparency
you know what is done on top of it if
the in-house team members are doing it
they actually tend to have more in-depth
product knowledge and understand your
services so much better
another benefit is a lower risk
of confidentiality breach right because
everybody signed the mba agreements they
know what to share what not to share
the disadvantage of it obviously it
takes much longer time to actually
complete the task
giving that you know everybody has
something to do they all have a
different priorities
they will take time to actually complete
your task and the
skill set that people have within the
team tend to be much
broader not necessarily specialized
another thing
is if people have been with your team or
your company for a long time
you know what they may not have the
industry experience that you are looking
for to write specific type of content
or run specific type of campaigns and
another thing is
if they are doing some of the technical
works obviously it's taking away
times from them to do strategic work for
the company so that's the pros and cons
in terms of in-source and the higher the
in-house talent to do a job what about
the pros and cons of outsource
obviously the biggest advantage of
outsourcing
is you can access the specific talent
and second thing is
well agency people want to get paid they
will try to get things done
much faster also you can focus your
in-house team to do a strategy
work and outsource the technical work to
the contractors and agencies
the biggest disadvantage is there's no
dedicated resource
to your job or to your project another
thing is
giving that is actually agencies and
contractors doing the jobs
they may not have the high caliber type
of expertise in terms of your products
and services
and another thing is the high turnover
rate
on the accounting that's something that
you have to deal with
from time to time so understanding the
pros and cons on the in-house versus
outsource is actually very very
important
the next questions i want to address is
actually
what are the factors you need to take
into account to determine in-house
versus outsource
well there are couple actually there are
probably three from my perspective
first one is it's always a headcount
versus a budget discussion
do you actually have a headcount that's
approved to actually hire somebody
full-time or
you just really have a budget that to
work with
not necessarily approve headcounts if
that's the case chances are you probably
have to hire contractors and agencies to
help you out so
take into account your budget versus the
headcount
especially the proof head counts but
once you have that information the next
things that you need to look into
is your marketing plans and also
priorities what are some of the key
priorities you have to get accomplished
for this year if it's actually higher
priorities chances are you want somebody
that you can trust
or somebody that have the full
competency to actually work on that or
you want to actually monitor it
very very closely so take into account
your marketing plans and also priorities
another thing that you have to take into
account is the gap of your talent pool
in addition to looking into your
marketing plan also your priorities
and you actually have say the budget and
the head count to
do your marketing efforts then you
probably have to look at the current
talent pool maybe you don't have the
talent pool there's a gap
to accomplish a certain initiative that
you need to do
and then if you have a headcount that
has been approved you should hire
a person specifically to fulfill that
gap but if you don't have a budget you
need to think
through in terms of okay should you hire
a contractor to actually help you out
all right so that's the second question
the third i want to address
is what should you do if you decided to
outsource
from my perspective the most important
thing is you need to brief
your contractors and agencies well using
third-party resources the contractors or
the agency
they all want to do a very good job for
you they do majority of them
right and but they don't know your
business they don't know your plan
they don't know the the inside politics
it's very important for you to actually
brief them and remove barriers for them
so they can do their jobs for example
they try to get in touch with the
subject matter experts
but the you know what the subject matter
experts
did not respond to your contractors or
your agency's request
then it's your job to actually jump in
and
try to schedule the time between the
subject matter expert and also the
agencies and contractors so they can
proceed
and get things going so when you are
working
with contractors and agencies make sure
you brief them well
give them all the information they need
and then remove the barriers for them
well thank you
for watching that video which is i
recorded
prior to the coronavirus pandemic
the three things or the elements i talk
about still apply in the current
situation
remember the first one is to understand
your budget and account situation
the second one is understand your
marketing plan and
initiative and the third is understand
the skill set
of a talent pool in the current
situation you still need to do the same
thing
now with the headcount being impacted
and the budget to be reduced assume you
are in that situation
if none of them is impacted excellent
but if you are in that situation you
still need to look at the headcount
budget
current situation and also revise your
marketing plan
right and understand your existing
talent pool
to determine how you want to in-source
versus outsource
my point is everything i talk about is
still applied to a current situation
you need to revisit your current
situation your budget your head count
your plan
then determine what is the right things
to do for you so these are the three
things i want to address today
in terms of the in-house versus
outsource i hope you find them useful
and quinny thank you so much for asking
the questions
i hope that i will see you next time
when i'm in hong kong
if you liked the episode please
subscribe to the channel below
i would like to feel your love if you
have any questions
again reach out to me anytime
pampemdinner.com
thank you so much bye